---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

This week I conducted further paper reviews and started initial dataset labeling.

Paper Review #7:

Title: SECTOR: A Neural Model for Coherent Topic Segmentation and Classification

Authors: Sebastian Schneider, Philippe Cudre-Mauroux, Felix Loser.

Institution: Beuth University of Applied Sciences (Germany), University of Fribourg (Switzerland)

1. What does the paper talk about?
    - This paper presents a use case for text segmentation that leverage two types of text information
        1. Topical information: latent semantic content.
        2. Structural information: segmentation.
    - Also introduced the human perspective, where we organize our thoughts and text in a thoughtfully designed readable structure. They key is building a system that is able to understand topic segmentatoin and classification simultaneously.
    - SECTOR is a model that encodes topical information on a vertical dimension and structural information on a horizontal dimension. It shows that the resulting embedding can be leveraged in a downstream pipeline to segment a document into coherent sections and classify the sections into one of up to 30 topic categories.
    - Methodology:
        1. The model reads in plain text without headings called D. Document D contains no structure information.
        2. Topic Distribution over sequence, where the model assume the sentences s0,s1,...,sN contain coherent sequence of local topics e0,e1,...,eN. 
        3. Topic segmentation where the document is broken down into coherent sections S0,S1,...SM.
        4. These sections are then classified into topic labels y0,y1,...,yM.
    - As an example step 3 can highlight a topic disease. Step 4 classifies that topic into disease symptom, cause or diagnosis.

2. How/What can I use from this paper?
    - My model is based solely on topic segmentation but considering the classification of the segment can prove to be fruitful when building our educational pipeline. 
    - As an example, the topic can be Conditional statements, but the classifications can be Introduction (introducing the topic), Explanation (explaining the topic), Example (showing an example of the topic).

Meeting #9: Dr. Lytle
    - This week we went over my list of main topics.
    - When discussing and reviewing the labeling we spoke further on the level of fidelity we wish to achieve. Too many topics and lead to bad accuracy results while too few topics could not be just as useful. The key idea is to think of when we should "bottom-out" with topics.
    - Additionally, we should consider that some topics have multiple components that could "go wrong". Consider a bottom up approach or skill tree approach when tagging the videos.
    - Start unstructured and then build up as a tree.